# README

## Establishing Community Standards for Underwater Video Acquisition, Tagging, Archiving, and Access

To be invited to this site send an email request to Brian Schlining at __brian at mbari dot org__ or Vicki Ferrini at __ferrini at ldeo dot columbia dot edu__.

### Background & Motivation
Video imagery is an integral part of underwater operations conducted with ROVs, HOVs, and AUVs. These data are critical for sampling, exploration, and observation activities during seafloor operations and are key records for immediate post-dive and post-cruise research by the shipboard participants. Video archives have the potential to provide broad significant scientific benefits long after data acquisition and have tremendous potential for engaging the public in exciting ocean science research. To achieve this potential, significant challenges must be addressed that will allow video archives to become accessible and include sufficient metadata to allow users to access the content relevant to their needs.

The technology for streaming and searching for video content on a variety of platforms (e.g. desktop, tablet, mobile, smart TV) has become mainstream, and the oceanographic research community has an opportunity to capitalize on these technologies. However, there has not been a coordinated effort within the oceanographic community to establish standards and guidelines to help mitigate the cost and effort required to get this high-value content online and accessible. These problems have been addressed and solved by others outside the ocean science community and already developed industry protocols and standards could be applicable to the protection and accessibility of deep submergence video data. This working group will bring together science community stakeholders, video recording experts, and data managers and metadata specialists to develop consensus and best practices for video and complementary metadata to help move the community toward the common goal of broad public access to distributed video content for scientific research and public outreach.
